William du is the director of un's
Washington office he joins us from
Washington DC thanks very much for
joining us in Al jazer six members of
unra have been killed in the strike it's
the highest death toll in in one single
incident of un staff how does unra
continue to operate when it appears its
own staff are not
safe uh thanks for the opportunity to
join you and uh yet again uh we see a
conflict where there seems to be
absolutely no bottom to it uh six Co six
colleagues lost today that brings the
death toll just among UNR staff uh in
this conflict to
220 which is uh the highest ever in
United Nations history uh our staff is
as you while you noted that no place is
safe in Gaza our staff are on the front
lines and they're not going to back down
they're not going to stop doing their
job but you are absolutely correct that
nowhere in Gaza is safe right now the UN
says it it shared information with
Israel that the school was being used as
a shelter more than 12,000 people there
why then does Israel still Target the
location is that Intelligence being used
against the UN and against people
seeking shelter
there well this is certainly and sadly
not a unique situation uh a total of 109
90 of unres installations have been
damaged that includes 128 of our school
Sheltering uh internally displaced
people uh many of them hit more than
once uh you are correct the United
Nations provides the Israelis with GPS
data on where every location uh all of
our locations and in fact uh to dispel
another rumor the UN just doesn't get up
one in the morning and decide to drive
somewhere in Gaza every one of those
movements is coordinated with the
Israeli Defense Force and as you saw on
Monday uh a un Convoy that was going to
vaccinate children in the north of Gaza
against polio was stopped for eight
hours and included a very significant
damage from bulldozers to our uh
Convoy you're also appealing for schools
not to be used as military targets yet
it still happens you've also mentioned
more than 200 staff being killed over uh
throughout this period the war on Gaza
this once again is a flagrant disregard
of international law but it seems very
little can be done to stop
it uh at the moment uh I I would have to
agree with you uh in fact the
commissioner General uh phelip lazarini
just noted that frankly the longer the
seeming impunity prevails over these uh
incidents at uh displac shelters uh the
more International humanitarian law and
the more the Geneva conventions will
become irrelevant and and this is not
just this is not going to be uh a
situation that is just going to be
restricted to Gaza the world is watching
to see what they can get away with to
explain why the convention for example
becomes irrelevant to explain why law is
is not being adhere to this is the fifth
time the school's been targeted and
we've heard many a time and you've said
it again tonight there is no safe space
or place for people in Gaza what are
people there continuing to
face well again 128 of our schools have
been hit at least once most of them more
than once that's 70% of the schools that
we uh in the UNR school system in Gaza
uh you know International humanitarian
law is quite clear that you have to
protect these people uh but it just it
is being completely ignored in this
instance and again the fear is not just
about what's going on in Gaza but that
bad actors throughout the world are
watching and and waiting to see the
reaction to this right William D the
director of J Washington office thank
you very much for joining us this
evening and explaining us explaining to
us the situation in Gaza of after the
news that six of your colleagues were
killed in that
strike make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler